# Why Write?

To get ideas out of my head, and help organize my thoughts

To get better at writing

To improve on sharing the right level of context for the right audience

## The Audience

### Personal writing
These blog posts are written for an audience of one.  Myself.  

I have no expectations for others to read or like what I write about.  There is freedom to explore and that gives me space to write without fear of judgement.

If my writing resonates with others, I'll take that as a signal that my writing is coming from a place of authenticity.  I tend to be a people pleaser and often seek validation from others.  That hasn't served me well, and usually isn't authentic either.  I hope to improve on that.

If I can write for myself, clearly articulate my thoughts, and come back a day later and understand my own writing, I will call that a success.

### Business writing
In a work setting, my writing can involve an audience of many different stakeholders:
- individual contributors, managers, managers of managers, executives
- project or program managers
- software engineers
- data analysts and data scientists
- attorneys
- customer success teams
- business development and sales operations 
- external vendors

It is difficult, maybe impossible, to write one document that serves all stakeholders with the right level of context.
Within a single document, the context needs to start very high level so that all rraders can understand the purpose of the document, the problem it describes, the business impact of resolving the problem, and the risks of doing nothing.  When framing the problem, technical details and jargon should be minimized.

## Communication mediums
- messaging, like slack or text messages
- email
- documents
- presentations
- conversations with individuals
- meetings
